                                    Overview
Microsoft Intune, a cloud-based endpoint management service, provides IT administrators with the tools to 
effectively manage and secure their organization’s devices, applications, and data. Among its comprehensive 
capabilities, Intune enables streamlined application deployment, robust security policy enforcement, and centralized 
control over the IT infrastructure. 

Win32 application management is a core feature of Intune, and installation timeouts play a critical role in determining 
the efficiency and success of application deployments. These timeouts define the maximum duration that Intune 
waits for an application deployment to complete before marking it a failed. By understanding and optimizing 
installation timeouts, IT administrators can effectively manage application deployments, minimize failures, and 
ensure timely software updates across devices within the organization. 

To deploy Win32 apps, the following prerequisites must be met:
      - Devices must run Windows 10 version 1607 or later (Enterprise, Pro, and Education editions)
      - Devices must be joined to Microsoft Entra ID and enrolled in Intune using the auto-enrollment feature
      - Windows application packages must not exceed 8 GB in size

Instructions on Cloud Service Administration
Deploy Win32 Applications Follow the link for additional instructions

    To Deploy Win32 apps with Intune, administrators must first compress the app into an ‘. intunewin’ file using the 
Win32 Content Prep command line tool. This tool requires specifying the path to the app’s installation file and the 
output folder for the compressed file. A sample command may look like: 
IntuneWinAppUtil -c [ path to configuration/ initializing file] -s [source /win file] -o [output directory] -q [quiet mode]

You can also create a folder on your desktop called 'IntuneAppPackage' and place the following folders inside: 'Intune_Input' and 'Intune_Output'
Install and place the following application within the 'IntuneAppPackage' folder: IntuneWinAppUtil.exe 
During execution simply specify the Source Folder as: 'Intune_Input' 
  specify the setupfile: (w/e files you need to package)
  specify the output folder as: 'Intune_Output'
  then say Y/N to specify the catalog folder: (in my cases this has been N)

Once the app is compressed, administrators can follow these steps to deploy it with Intune: 
1. In the Intune pane, select Client apps > Apps > Add and select Windows app (Win32).
2. Add the app information: name, description, publisher, category, owner, etc.
3. Configure app installation and uninstall commands.
4. Define the app requirements.
5. Add requirement rules.
6. Configure app detection rules.
  MSI tends to be reliable as the path can vary between devices/images
7. Configure app return codes.
8. Assign appropriately


Understanding Installation Timeouts 
Intune notifies devices to check in with the Intune service to receive updated policies and profiles. The notification 
times vary between platforms and can range from immediately to a few hours. If a device doesn’t check in after the 
first notification, Intune makes three (3) more attempts. Offline devices may not receive notifications and will get the 
updates on their next scheduled check-in. 


                            Estimated Policy Refresh Intervals

 Platform Refresh Cycle
Android About every 8 hours
iOS/ iPadOS About every 8 hours
MacOS About every 8 hours
Windows 10/11 PCs enrolled as devices About every 8 hours
Windows 8.1 About every 8 hours


For devices that have recently enrolled in Intune, the compliance, non-compliance, and configuration check-in runs 
more frequently. The estimated frequencies are:

                        Android Every 3 minutes for 15 minutes, then every 15 
                        minutes for 2 hours, and then around every 8 hours
                        iOS/ iPadOS Every 15 minutes for 1 hour, and then around every 
                        8 hours
                        MacOS Every 15 minutes for 1 hours, and then around every 
                        8 hours
                        Windows 10/11 PCs enrolled as devices Every 3 minutes for 15 minutes, then every 15 
                        minutes for 2 hours, and then around every 8 hours
                        Windows 8.1 Every 5 minutes for 15 minutes, then every 15 
                        minutes for 2 hours, and then around every 8 hours



           Impact of Win32 Timeouts on App Deployment & Mitigation Strategies

Win32 timeouts pose a significant challenge to the success of Win32 app deployments. If an app installation or 
update exceeds the specified timeout limit, it will fail, potentially disrupting user productivity and hindering 
organizational goals. To ensure seamless app deployments, Azure administrators must carefully consider the 
following factors: 

      • Default Timeouts: Intune establishes default timeouts for app installations and updates. These timeouts can 
      be adjusted to accommodate longer deployment processes, particularly for complex applications with 
      extensive resource requirements.
      • App Complexity: The complexity of Win32 apps directly impacts their installation times. Resource-intensive 
      applications may require extended timeframes for deployment. Azure administrators should evaluate app 
      complexity and adjust timeouts accordingly to ensure successful installations.
      • Network Connectivity: Reliable and consistent network connectivity is crucial for timely app deployments. 
      Devices with unstable or unreliable network connections are more susceptible to timeout issues, potentially 
      leading to deployment failures. Ensuring robust network connectivity throughout the organization is essential 
      for maintaining successful app deployments.
      • Policy Prioritization and Organization: Clearly defined policy purposes and avoiding duplication or 
      contradictions are essential for preventing policy conflicts that can lead to deployment failures. Administrators 
      should prioritize and organize policies effectively to minimize conflict risks and ensure smooth app 
      deployments.
      • Targeted Policy Assignment: Assigning policies to specific user and device groups based on their unique 
      requirements can significantly reduce the risk of policy conflicts. By tailoring policies to specific groups, 
      administrators can avoid conflicts that might arise from applying blanket policies across the entire 
      organization.
      • Regular Policy Reviews and Updates: Regularly reviewing and updating policies to adapt to changing 
      requirements is crucial for maintaining successful app deployments. As organizational needs evolve and new 
      applications are introduced, administrators should assess policy effectiveness and make necessary updates to 
      ensure ongoing deployment success.

Troubleshooting App Deployment related to timeouts
Timeouts can significantly impact the success of Win32 app deployments. To effectively troubleshoot and resolve 
timeout-related issues, follow these steps: 
Identify the Affected App
Review App Installation Logs
Evaluate App Complexity
Assess Network Conditions
Verify Timeout 
Settings Adjust Timeouts Monitor and Retest

Intune Win32 App Install Timeouts: Understanding and Mitigating Conflicts
Intune’s policy management system can occasionally encounter conflicts when multiple policies attempt to modify 
the same settings on a device or user. These conflicts can disrupt Win32 app deployments, causing installation 
failures or unexpected application behavior. To ensure a smooth and successful Win32 app deployment process, 
administrators need to understand and address these conflicts proactively. 

             Policy Type Conflict Resolution

App Protection Policies Most restrictive settings applied: numeric entry fields retain assigned values

Compliance and Device Configuration Policies: Compliance policy settings take precedence over configuration profile settings. Custom compliance policy settings supersede the same settings in device 
configuration policies. Among compliance policies, the most restrictive setting prevails. 

Custom iOS/ iPadOS/ MacOS Policies: Intune serves as a delivery mechanism; administrator responsibility to ensure custom polices don’t conflict with other policies
